Reference for stage 3 temporal (#37344)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/temporal/zoneddatetime/index.md

| Current IANA primary identifier  | CLDR database          |
| -------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| `America/Argentina/Buenos_Aires` | `America/Buenos_Aires` |
| `Asia/Kolkata`                   | `Asia/Calcutta`        |
| `Asia/Ho_Chi_Minh`               | `Asia/Saigon`          |
| `Europe/Kyiv`                    | `Europe/Kiev`          |

For more information, check the [CLDR database](https://github.com/unicode-org/cldr-json/blob/main/cldr-json/cldr-bcp47/bcp47/timezone.json). (IANA names are marked with `"_iana"`, if different.)

To eliminate redundancy, JavaScript APIs that return time zone identifiers may choose to canonicalize non-primary time zone identifiers to their primary time zone identifiers. Such cases include:

- {{jsxref("Temporal/Now/timeZoneId", "Temporal.Now.timeZoneId()")}}
- {{jsxref("Intl/Locale/getTimeZones", "Intl.Locale.prototype.getTimeZones()")}}
- {{jsxref("Intl/DateTimeFormat/resolvedOptions", "Temporal.DateTimeFormat.prototype.resolvedOptions()")}} (`timeZone` option)
- {{jsxref("Intl.supportedValuesOf()")}} (`timeZone` option)

> Firefox has always been overriding these legacy names, while others have not (Safari and Chrome). There is [an effort in TC39 to properly handle these canonical identifiers](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-canonical-tz), which also contains links to related CLDR issues.

Author: For context, this paragraph has always been there; it's just moved from `Intl.Locale#getTimeZones` to here now we have a more canonical place to talk about time zones. While writing these docs, I checked `resolvedOptions().timeZone` again, and it seems that Chrome now stops canonicalizing while Firefox and Safari still canonicalize in opposite directions.

> Firefox has always been overriding these legacy names, while others have not (Safari and Chrome). There is [an effort in TC39 to properly handle these canonical identifiers](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-canonical-tz), which also contains links to related CLDR issues.

Reviewer: Lol, I didn't know that Chrome had already made that change. When did they make it?  I just tested on latest non-Canary Chrome (`131.0.6778.205 (Official Build) (arm64)`) and it's still canonicalizing to the old IDs: 

<img width="608" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/95c15b1b-9087-4910-aa58-bd6a251b7f42" />

In any case, I'd still recommend replacing this paragraph with the content in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/37344#discussion_r1903175463.

> Firefox has always been overriding these legacy names, while others have not (Safari and Chrome). There is [an effort in TC39 to properly handle these canonical identifiers](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-canonical-tz), which also contains links to related CLDR issues.

Author: D'oh, I must have messed up somewhere in my tests or was just tired. Yeah it doesn't seem like they've changed.

> Firefox has always been overriding these legacy names, while others have not (Safari and Chrome). There is [an effort in TC39 to properly handle these canonical identifiers](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-canonical-tz), which also contains links to related CLDR issues.

Reviewer: OK, cool. It was my previous understanding that V8 was planning to sync up changes to this behavior with Temporal Stage 4. The reasoning is that currently the only way to compare two time zones for equality is to use `resolvedOptions().timeZone` by checking to see if they both canonicalize to the same ID. Once Temporal is available, then `Temporal.ZonedDateTime.equals` can be used for this purpose instead, which makes it less worrisome to change `resolvedOptions().timeZone` canonicalization behavior.

> ### ISO 8601 format

Author: So, we should remove mentions to "ISO 8601" across the board and replace them with "RFC 9557", right? Because we have this same section in every API.

> ### ISO 8601 format

Reviewer: Yeah, that's probably a good idea. Developers still know ISO 8601 (and to a lesser extent, RFC 3339) more than the brand-new RFC 9557, so it'd be smart to provide a Google honeytrap for "parse an ISO 8601 string with a time zone" but I think it's fine to mention all three standards in one place, and then to refer to RFC 9557 everywhere else.

When constructing a `ZonedDateTime` from a local time (using {{jsxref("Temporal/ZonedDateTime/from", "Temporal.ZonedDateTime.from()")}}, {{jsxref("Temporal/ZonedDateTime/with", "Temporal.ZonedDateTime.prototype.with()")}}, {{jsxref("Temporal/PlainDateTime/toZonedDateTime", "Temporal.PlainDateTime.prototype.toZonedDateTime()")}}), the behavior for ambiguity and gaps is configurable via the `disambiguation` option:

- `earlier`
  - : If there are two possible instants, choose the earlier one. If there is a gap, go back by the gap duration.
- `later`
  - : If there are two possible instants, choose the later one. If there is a gap, go forward by the gap duration.
- `compatible` (default)
  - : Same behavior as {{jsxref("Date")}}: use `later` for gaps and `earlier` for ambiguities.
- `reject`
  - : Throw a `RangeError` whenever there is an ambiguity or a gap.

There are several cases where there's no ambiguity when constructing a `ZonedDateTime`:

> - If the time is specified in UTC via the `Z` offset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the time is specified in UTC via the `Z` offset. Using `Z` in an RFC 9557 string tells Temporal to use the square-bracketed time zone annotation to determine the offset.
```

- If the offset is explicitly provided and used (see below).

### Offset ambiguity

> We already demonstrated how ambiguity may arise from interpreting a local time in a time zone, without providing an explicit offset. However, if you provide an explicit offset, then another conflict arises: between the offset as specified, and the offset as calculated from the time zone and the local time. This is an unavoidable real-world issue: if you store a time in the future, with an anticipated offset, then before that time comes, the time zone definition may have changed due to political reasons. For example, suppose in 2018, I set a reminder at the time `2019-12-23T12:00:00-02:00[America/Sao_Paulo]` (which is a daylight saving time; Brazil is in the southern hemisphere, so it enters DST in October and exits in February). But before that time comes, in early 2019, Brazil decides to stop observing DST, so the real offset becomes `-03:00`. Should the reminder now still fire at noon (respect time zone identifier), or should it fire at 11:00 AM (respect offset)?

Author: ```suggestion
We already demonstrated how ambiguity may arise from interpreting a local time in a time zone, without providing an explicit offset. However, if you provide an explicit offset, then another conflict arises: between the offset as specified, and the offset as calculated from the time zone and the local time. This is an unavoidable real-world issue: if you store a time in the future, with an anticipated offset, then before that time comes, the time zone definition may have changed due to political reasons. For example, suppose in 2018, I set a reminder at the time `2019-12-23T12:00:00-02:00[America/Sao_Paulo]` (which is a daylight saving time; Brazil is in the southern hemisphere, so it enters DST in October and exits in February). But before that time comes, in early 2019, Brazil decides to stop observing DST, so the real offset becomes `-03:00`. Should the reminder now still fire at noon (keeping the local time), or should it fire at 11:00 AM (keeping the exact time)?
```

When constructing a `ZonedDateTime` from an ISO 8601 string or when updating it using the {{jsxref("Temporal/ZonedDateTime/with", "with()")}} method, the behavior for offset ambiguity is configurable via the `offset` option:

- `use`

>   - : Use the offset to calculate the exact time. This keeps the same exact time as originally calculated when we stored the time. The time zone identifier is still used to then infer the correct offset and convert the exact time to local time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Use the offset to calculate the exact time. This option "uses" the offset when determining the instant represented by the string, which will be the same instant originally calculated when we stored the time, even if the offset at that instant has changed. The time zone identifier is still used to then infer the (possibly updated) offset and use that offset to convert the exact time to local time.
```

- `ignore`

>   - : Use the time zone identifier to re-calculate the offset, ignoring what's specified. This keeps the same local time as originally calculated when we stored the time. Note that this causes the same local time interpretation ambiguity as demonstrated above, which is resolved using the `disambiguation` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Use the time zone identifier to re-calculate the offset, ignoring the offset that's specified in the string. This option keeps the same local time as originally calculated when we stored the time, but may correspond to a different instant. Note that this option may cause the same local time interpretation ambiguity as demonstrated above, which is resolved using the `disambiguation` option.
```

- `reject`
  - : Throw a `RangeError` whenever there is a conflict between the offset and the time zone identifier. This is the default for {{jsxref("Temporal/ZonedDateTime/from", "Temporal.ZonedDateTime.from()")}}.
- `prefer`
  - : Use the offset if it's valid, otherwise calculate the offset from the time zone identifier. This is the default for {{jsxref("Temporal/ZonedDateTime/with", "Temporal.ZonedDateTime.prototype.with()")}} (see the method for more details). This is different from `ignore` because in the case of local time ambiguity, the offset is used to resolve it rather than the `disambiguation` option.

> Note that the `Z` offset does not mean `+00:00`; it is always considered valid regardless of the time zone. The time is interpreted as a UTC time, and the time zone identifier is then used to convert it to local time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the `Z` offset does not mean `+00:00`; it is always considered valid regardless of the time zone. The time is interpreted as a UTC time, and the time zone identifier is then used to convert it to local time. In other words, `Z` enforces the same behavior as the `ignore` option and its results can never be ambiguous.
```

> [!NOTE]

> > Although {{jsxref("Temporal/Instant/from", "Temporal.Instant.from()")}} also takes an ISO 8601 string in the same form, there is no ambiguity because it always ignores the time zone identifier and reads the offset only.

Reviewer: Like above, we should refer to RFC 9557 here, not ISO 8601.
